This was the first year of the Granite Mon Challenge, including the swim, the bike ride, and the climb up MountKatahdin.  

The swim went well; details, anyone? 

The bike part went well, too, unless you hold our late start against us.  It's pretty hard to get moving after a big swim like that.  We all met at Justin's house after a shower, and ate a wonderful breakfast (extremely belated *thanks!*).  Riders this year included Ben Walker, John Clements, Justin Pollard, (anyone else?) and JuanTheRemarkable.  We started in the middle of BlueHill, and rode northward past Penobscot, Orono, (more towns, anyone?) .... Our route paralleled the upper PenobscotRiver, and we had many scenic stops.  Some not-so-scenic stops, too.

In a roadside accident, JohnClements munched his back wheel, and sat out the last ten miles or so, until everyone threw in the towel and tossed the bikes in the back of the ChaseCars and motored up to that motel in Millinocket.

The next day, in our haste to get to Baxter State Park, we managed to get two speeding tickets for  three vehicles.  Actually, it would have been three speeding tickets had Mark Read not signalled to us to pretend we didn't know them.

We were fortunate to get into the park, and were assigned to the Abol trail--quickest route up the mountain, involving a long clamber over a huge rockslide that happened pretty recently; in the last two hundred years or so.

At the trailhead, we discovered that there was no running water in the park.  Oh dear.  Being young and dumb, we decided to chance it with the water that we had; somewhere in the neighborhood of 3/4 of a liter per person.  

We made it to the top pretty handily, and sat and enjoyed the truly spectacular view.  Even with the park's restriction on entry, the summit was moderately crowded, but what the hell; there's enough lonely grandeur to go around.

What's more humbling is to arrive at the summit alongside the Appalachian Trail through-hikers, for whom this peak is the end of a very very long road.  Our achievement seems pretty mundane in comparison.  It's strange to watch these people leave the peak; they've suddenly turned from through-hikers back into pedestrians.

Gee whiz, I hope someone has some pictures.
